README.md, before:

# PDF to DOCX Converter (Mediation Application Form)

This project recreates a legal PDF form as a Microsoft Word document using Python.
The focus of this assignment is on accurately replicating the structure, layout,
spacing, and content of the original PDF file.

## Features
- Upload a PDF file through a simple web interface
- Generate a Word (.docx) document that closely matches the original PDF layout
- Uses python-docx for document creation
- Built using Flask for easy interaction

## Technologies Used
- Python 3
- Flask
- python-docx

## Project Structure
- `app.py` – Flask application for handling file upload and download
- `converter.py` – Core logic to generate the Word document
- `templates/index.html` – Simple HTML interface
- `requirements.txt` – Project dependencies

## How to Run the Project

1. Clone the repository:
git clone https://github.com/abhay-chayal/pdf-to-docx-converter.git
cd pdf-to-docx-converter

2. Install dependencies:
pip install -r requirements.txt

3. Run the application:
python app.py

4. Open the application in your browser:
http://127.0.0.1:5000

5. Upload the PDF file and download the generated Word document:
Select the PDF file, click Convert, and the replicated .docx file will be downloaded automatically.

Commit message:

Add approach section to README
Added an approach section detailing the manual recreation of the PDF form and the use of a Flask web interface.

README.md, after:

# PDF to DOCX Converter (Mediation Application Form)

This project recreates a legal PDF form as a Microsoft Word document using Python.
The focus of this assignment is on accurately replicating the structure, layout,
spacing, and content of the original PDF file.

## Approach

The PDF was first analyzed to understand its structure, spacing, and table layout.
Instead of automated PDF parsing, the document was recreated manually using python-docx
to closely match the original format.

A Flask-based web interface was used to allow users to upload the PDF and download
the generated Word document.


## Features
- Upload a PDF file through a simple web interface
- Generate a Word (.docx) document that closely matches the original PDF layout
- Uses python-docx for document creation
- Built using Flask for easy interaction

## Technologies Used
- Python 3
- Flask
- python-docx

## Project Structure
- `app.py` – Flask application for handling file upload and download
- `converter.py` – Core logic to generate the Word document
- `templates/index.html` – Simple HTML interface
- `requirements.txt` – Project dependencies

## How to Run the Project

1. Clone the repository:
git clone https://github.com/abhay-chayal/pdf-to-docx-converter.git
cd pdf-to-docx-converter

2. Install dependencies:
pip install -r requirements.txt

3. Run the application:
python app.py

4. Open the application in your browser:
http://127.0.0.1:5000

5. Upload the PDF file and download the generated Word document:
Select the PDF file, click Convert, and the replicated .docx file will be downloaded automatically.
